There are three ways of experiencing the world of people, things and events: 1.
sensate (senses); 2. cerebral (thoughts); 3. affective (feelings). The feelings
include both the affectionate and desirable emotions/passions (those that are
loving and trusting) and hostile and invidious emotions/passions (those that are
hateful and fearful).
%
All sentient beings are born with instinctual passions like fear and aggression
and nurture and desire genetically bestowed by blind nature which give rise to a
rudimentary animal ‘self’ – which is ‘being’ itself – that human beings with
their ability to think and reflect upon their mortality have transformed into a
‘me’ as soul (a ‘feeler’ in the heart) and an ‘I’ as ego (a ‘thinker’ in the
head).
%
Thus there are three I’s altogether but only one is actual (sensate) and not an
identity; I am this flesh and blood body being apperceptively aware. The primary
cause of all the wars and murders and rapes and tortures and domestic violence
and child abuse and suicides and so on is the instinctual passions which give
rise to malice and sorrow and the antidotally generated pacifiers of love and
compassion which, if sublimated and transcended, give rise to Love Agapé and
Divine Compassion. This ‘Tried and True’ solution to all the ills of humankind
lies within the ‘Human Condition’ and, as it has had 3,000 to 5,000 years to
demonstrate its efficacy, can be discarded as being the ‘Tried and Failed’.
%
I am mortal in that I was born, I live for a period of years, then I die and
death is the end, finish. The material universe is infinite and eternal and was
here before I was born and will be here after I die.
%
There are three worlds altogether but only one is actual; there is nothing other
than this actual, physical universe (the normal ‘reality’ as experienced by 6.0
billion human beings is an illusion and the abnormal ‘Reality’ as experienced by
0.0000001 of the population is a delusion born out of the illusion because of
the self-aggrandising tendency of the narcissism born of the survival
instincts).
%
Peace-on-earth can become apparent to anyone at all irregardless of gender, age
or race because the perfection of the infinitude of this spatial and temporal
universe is already always here at this place in infinite space ... now at this
moment in eternal time.
%
When ‘I’ as ego and ‘me’ as soul psychologically and psychically self-immolate –
which is the end of ‘being’ itself – then the answer to the ‘Mystery Of Life’
becomes evident as an on-going existential experiencing; I am this physical
universe experiencing itself as a reflective, sensate human being; as me, the
universe is intelligent (there is no anthropomorphic ‘Intelligence’ that is
creating or running existence).
%
There is a wide and wondrous path to actual freedom: One asks oneself, each
moment again, ‘how am I experiencing this moment of being alive’? This gives
rise to apperception. Apperception is the outcome of the exclusive attention
paid to being alive right here and now. Apperception is to be the senses as a
bare awareness, a pure consciousness experience (PCE) of the world as-it-is,
which happens when the mind becomes aware of itself. Apperception is an
awareness of consciousness. It is not ‘I’ being aware of ‘me’ being conscious;
it is the mind’s awareness of itself.
%
The day finally dawns where the definitive moment of being here, right now,
conclusively arrives; something irrevocable takes place and every thing and
every body and every event is different, somehow, although the same physically;
something immutable occurs and every thing and every body and every event is
all-of-a-sudden undeniably actual, in and of itself, as a fact; something
irreversible happens and an immaculate perfection and a pristine purity
permeates every thing and every body and every event; something has changed
forever, although it is as if nothing has happened, except that the entire world
is a magical fairytale-like playground full of incredible gladness and a delight
which is never-ending.

